---
title: "Overview of code-first development"
description: "This page discusses code-first development processes associated with Dataverse Git integration and provides guidance on how to manage code-first and low-code components in a single environment."
author: shmcarth
ms.subservice: alm
ms.author: matp
ms.date: 04/16/2024
ms.custom: 
ms.topic: article
ms.reviewer: tapanm
ms.collection: 
ms.contributors:
- mikefactorial
---
# Overview of code-first development

Code-first development in the Power Platform is enabled using development tooling like the Power Platform CLI, Visual Studio, and Visual Studio Code extensions. Involving code-first developers in the solution development process is difficult without source control integration as components like PCF controls and Dataverse plugins are deployed to solutions as packaged assets built from source code and not directly editable in the maker portal. Without source control as a part of the development process for both low-code and code-first components, it's difficult to manage changes to the solution and ensure that changes are tracked and deployed in a controlled manner.

By enabling Git integration in Dataverse, you can meet code-first developers where they work and provide a seamless experience for both low-code and code-first developers. However, there are some considerations to keep in mind when managing code-first components in a low-code environment.

## Fusion Development with Dataverse Git integration

The Power Platform provides capabilities for both low-code and code-first development. This page discusses code-first development processes associated with Dataverse Git integration and provides guidance on how to manage code-first and low-code components in a single environment. Components like PCF controls, Dataverse plugins, and custom workflow activities are examples of code-first components that can be managed in source control.

## Code-first and low-code components in a single environment

Code-first components can be included in solutions through a build process that generates a managed or unmanaged solution that can be imported into a Dataverse environment. However, code first components can also be deployed directly into an unmanaged solution in a maker environment once they're built without employing the solution build process to deploy them. There are a few things to consider given this flexibility:

1. If you're deploying code-first components directly to an unmanaged solution in a maker environment, when those components are committed to source control, only their compiled / built version is stored in source control (for example, the binary dll if a plugin or the transpiled and optimized bundle.js for a PCF control). As a result you end up with two copies of the component in source control. One represented by the built version and the other represented by the source code. Storing binaries in your repository can lead to confusion and potential conflicts if the source code and the built version aren't kept in sync. This practice isn't recommended because the source code should be the single source of truth for the component and only a single copy should be stored.

1. The recommended approach is to build code-first components as part of a solution build process and import the generated unmanaged solution into the maker environment. This approach ensures that the source code and the built version are kept in sync and that the source code is the single source of truth for the component. However, this approach requires that you have a build process in place to generate the managed or unmanaged solution for use in the import process and deployment process. You can create Azure Pipelines or GitHub workflows, for instance, that create artifacts for Pipelines in Power Platform and for the Git sync processes to consume.

## Configuration in Pipelines in Power Platform (coming soon)

The ability to configure Pipelines in Power Platform to use artifacts generated by build processes in Azure DevOps or GitHub provides your organization with flexibility in the deployment process. If you already have a build process in place for your code-first components, you can configure Pipelines in Power Platform to use the artifacts generated by the build process to deploy your solutions to your environments or you can choose to use the built-in build process in Pipelines in Power Platform to build your solutions.

### Related content

[Code first scenarios](/power-platform/alm/git-integration/code-first-scenarios)  
