---
title: Responding to DSR requests for system-generated logs in Power Apps, Power Automate, and Microsoft Dataverse 
description: Walkthrough of how to respond to DSR requests for system-generated logs in Power Apps, Power Automate, and Microsoft Dataverse
author: sericks007
ms.reviewer: paulliew
ms.component: pa-admin
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 12/09/2024
ms.subservice: admin
ms.author: sericks
search.audienceType: 
  - admin
---

# Responding to DSR requests for system-generated logs in Power Apps, Power Automate, and Microsoft Dataverse

Microsoft gives you the ability to access, export, and delete system-generated logs that may be deemed personal under the privacy standard definition of *personal data*. Examples of system-generated logs that may be deemed personal under privacy standards include:
* Product and service usage data, such as user activity logs
* User search requests and query data
* Data generated by product and services as a product of system functionality and interaction by users or other systems

Note that the ability to restrict or rectify data in system-generated logs isn't supported. Data in system-generated logs constitutes factual actions conducted within the Microsoft cloud, and diagnostic data&mdash;including modifications to such data&mdash;would compromise the historical record of actions and increase fraud and security risks.

## Prerequisites
This article focuses on responding to DSR requests for system-generated logs in managed and unmanaged tenants. To determine whether or not you belong to a managed or unmanaged tenant, see the following **Determining Tenant Type** section.

## Accessing and exporting system-generated logs for Managed Tenants
Administrators can access system-generated logs associated with a user's use of Power Apps, Power Automate, and Dataverse services and applications.

To access and export system-generated logs, review the guidance in [Learn about Priva Subject Rights Requests](/privacy/priva/subject-rights-requests).

1. Go to the [Microsoft Priva portal](https://servicetrust.microsoft.com) and sign in as a member of the **Subject Rights Request Administrators role** group. [Get started with Priva](/privacy/priva/priva-setup) provides more information.

1. Review [How to access](/privacy/priva/subject-rights-requests#how-to-access) to learn more about access subject rights requests for data within Microsoft 365.

    After you create a new request, the request is listed on the **Data Log Export** page, where you can track its status. After a request is complete, you can select a link to access the system-generated logs, which will be exported to your organization's Azure storage location within 30 days of creating the request. The data is saved in common, machine-readable file formats such as XML, CSV, or JSON. If you don't have an Azure account and Azure storage location, you'll need to create an Azure account and/or Azure storage location for your organization so that the Data Log Export tool can export the system-generated logs. For more information, see [Introduction to Azure Storage](/azure/storage/common/storage-introduction).

The following table summarizes accessing and exporting system-generated logs for managed tenants:

| Question | Answer |
| --- | --- |
| How long does the Microsoft Data Log Export tool take to complete a request? |    It depends on several factors. In most cases it should complete in one or two days, but it can take up to 30 days.
| What format will the output be in? | The output is in the form of structured, machine-readable files such as XML, CSV, or JSON.
| Who has access to the Data Log Export tool to submit access requests for system-generated logs? |  Members of the **Subject Rights Request Administrators role** group have access to the privacy Log Manager tool.
| What data does the Data Log Export tool return? |    The Data Log Export tool returns system-generated logs that Microsoft stores. Exported data spans across various Microsoft services including Microsoft 365, Azure, Dynamics, Power Apps, Power Automate, and Dataverse.
| How is data returned to the user? |    Data is exported to your organization's Azure storage location; it's up to administrators in your organization to determine how they'll show/return this data to users.
| What will data in system-generated logs look like? |    Example of a system-generated log record in JSON format: <br> [{ <br>"DateTime": "2017-04- 28T12:09:29-07:00",  <br> "AppName": "SharePoint", <br> "Action": "OpenFile", "IP": "154.192.13.131", <br> "DevicePlatform": "Windows 1.0.1607" <br>}]

> [!NOTE]
>  For security and audit purposes, some features do not allow you to export or delete system-generated logs in order to maintain the integrity of personal information.

## Deleting system-generated logs for Managed Tenants
To delete system-generated logs retrieved through an access request, you must remove the user from the service and permanently delete their Microsoft Entra account. For instructions on how to permanently delete a user, see the **Deleting a user** section in the *Azure Data Subject Request privacy documentation* that can be found on the [Microsoft 365 Service Trust Portal](https://servicetrust.microsoft.com/ViewPage/GDPRDSR). It's important to note that permanently deleting a user account is irreversible once initiated.

Permanently deleting a user account removes the user's data from system-generated logs for Power Apps, Power Automate, and Dataverse services within 30 days.


## Accessing and exporting system-generated logs for Unmanaged Tenants

Users can access system-generated logs associated with their use of Power Apps, Power Automate, and Dataverse services and applications.

To access and export system-generated logs, do the following:
1. Go to the [Work and School Privacy portal](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=873123).
1. On the **My data requests** page, a user can request a data export by clicking on the **New export request** button.
1. Upon clicking this button, you'll be asked for to confirm your request. Select **Yes** to continue.
1. New export requests may take up to one month to complete. During this time, you'll see a status of **Running**.
1. Once complete, the **Date Completed** column is populated and a link to your **system-generated** logs will be provided.
1. Select on this link to download your data. You can use a text editor to view this data.
1. Also note, the **Expiry date** for this content is being populated within the Expiry Date column. You have up until this time to retrieve your system-generated logs.

The following table summarizes accessing and exporting system-generated logs for unmanaged tenants:

| Question | Answer |
| --- | --- |
| How long does the Microsoft Data Log Export tool take to complete a request? |    This depends on several factors. In most cases it should complete in one or two days, but it can take up to 30 days.
| What format will the output be in? | The output is in the form of structured, machine-readable files such as XML, CSV, or JSON.
| Who has access to the Data Log Export tool to submit access requests for system-generated logs? |    Users who are a member of an unmanaged tenant have access to submit requests.
| What data does the Data Export tool return? |    The Data Export tool returns system-generated logs that Microsoft stores. Exported data spans across various Microsoft services including Microsoft 365, Azure, Dynamics, Power Apps, Power Automate, and Dataverse.
| How is data returned to the user? |    Data is exported to a Microsoft website where a link will be securely provided to the user who made the DSR request.
| What will data in system-generated logs look like? |    Example of a system-generated log record in JSON format: <br> [{ <br>"DateTime": "2017-04- 28T12:09:29-07:00",  <br> "AppName": "SharePoint", <br> "Action": "OpenFile", "IP": "154.192.13.131", <br> "DevicePlatform": "Windows 1.0.1607" <br>}]

> [!NOTE]
>  For security and audit purposes, some features do not allow you to export or delete system-generated logs in order to maintain the integrity of personal information.
>
>

## Deleting system-generated logs for Unmanaged Tenants
To delete system-generated logs retrieved through an access request, you must close your account, which will delete your system-generated logs and remove your data in Power Apps, Power Automate, and Dataverse services within 30 days.

To delete system-generated logs, do the following:
1. Go to the [Work and School Privacy portal](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=873123).
1. On the **My data requests** page, a user can request the deletion of their data by clicking on the **Close account** button.
1. Upon clicking this button, you'll be asked for to confirm your request. Select **Yes** to continue.
1. Once the account has been closed, you won't have access to Power Apps, Power Automate, and Dataverse.

## Determining Tenant Type
To determine whether or not you're a user of a managed or unmanaged tenant, perform the following actions:
1. Open the following URL in a browser, making sure to replace your email address in the URL:[https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/userrealm/name@contoso.com?api-version=2.1](https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/userrealm/name@contoso.com?api-version=2.1).

2. If you are a member of an unmanaged tenant,** then you'll see an `"IsViral": true` in the response.
  
   ```powershell
      {
      ...
      "Login": "name@unmanagedcontoso.com",
      "DomainName": "unmanagedcontoso.com",
      "IsViral": **true**,
      ...
      }
   ```

3. Otherwise, you belong to a managed tenant.


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
