---
title: FAQ for GPT Answers
description: Desc for Answers
keywords: "PVA"
ms.date: 2/8/2023
ms.topic: how-to
author: iaanw
ms.author: iawilt
ms.reviewer: 
manager: shellyha
ms.collection: virtual-agent
ms.service: power-virtual-agents
searchScope:
  - "Power Virtual Agents"
---

# GPT Answers training, model, and usage FAQ

[!INCLUDE [Preview disclaimer](includes/cc-beta-prerelease-disclaimer.md)]


<!-- ## TODO
> - [ ] Connect to intro and hub  
> - [ ] Update naming/branding wording
> - [ ] Link to Bing announcement
> - [ ] Confirm sub path limits
-->


## General

### What is GPT Answers?

When GPT Answers is enabled, your chatbot will use AI, powered by the Azure OpenAI GPT-3 model (which is also used in Bing), to dynamically answer questions from your chatbot users - even if you haven't created a specific topic. The AI powering this feature will look to a website that you've specified to find relevant information, and then generate a plain-language response to the user's question.

See the [GPT Answers Learn topic](gpt-answers.md) for information about how to configure and use the feature.

> [!WARNING]
> 
> What is the Bing feature called? Link to the announcement?


### What data has GPT Answers been trained on?

GPT Answers is powered by the Azure OpenAI GPT-3 model. GPT models are  trained on a corpus consisting of a wide body of publicly available free text data. This data is sourced from a combination of web crawling, English-language Wikipedia, and more. [Learn more about Azure OpenAI](/legal/cognitive-services/openai/transparency-note). 

### Does GPT Answers produce perfect responses?   
Responses generated by GPT Answers are not always perfect. 

The system is designed to query knowledge from the website of your choosing and to package relevant findings into an easily consumable response. However, it's important to keep in mind some characteristics of the AI that may lead to unexpected responses:

- The corpus upon which the model has been trained doesn't include data created after 2021.  
  We have implemented mitigations to prevent GPT from using its training corpus as a source for answers, however it is possible for answers to include content from websites other than the one you selected. 

- The system does not perform an accuracy check, so if the selected website contains inaccurate information this could be shown to your chatbot users. We have implemented mitigations to filter out irrelevant and offensive responses, and the feature is designed not to respond when offensive language is detected. These filters and mitigations are not foolproof.  
  You should always test and review your bots before publishing them. Publishing bots that have GPT Answers enabled requires admin approval. During the preview, your admin will need to contact Microsoft support to enable publication.


### How was GPT Answers evaluated? What metrics are used to measure performance?   

GPT Answers was evaluated on a collection of manually curated question-and-answer datasets, covering multiple industries. 

During evaluation, AI-generated responses were compared against ideal responses using semantic similarity. 

Semantic similarity was evaluated using a custom embedding model (trained on a large corpus of publicly available business data) where both AI-generated answers and human-curated answers were evaluated in the same semantic space. 

Additionally, we use the [ROUGE-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ROUGE_(metric)) and [BLEU](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BLEU) methodologies to assess the level of overlap between AI-generated responses and human-curated responses.

Additional evaluation was performed over custom datasets for offensive and malicious prompts and responses where precision and recall was measured on a labeled dataset.

### How does a customer get the most out of GPT Answers?

GPT Answers works best when you designate a trusted and valid website from which content should be queried. In particular answers are most accurate when you specify a top-level domain, or avoid using a URL that contains multiple levels or "paths". See the [GPT Answers Learn topic](gpt-answers.md) for examples and suggestions. All webpages that belong to this domain will be searched for a match against the user’s question.

> [!WARNING]
>  
> Does the last sentence mean that even if you put in a subURL (microsoft.com/rewards/earning), GPT will look at everything under microsoft.com? Or only at content in that path, eg microsoft.com/rewards/earning/help and microsoft.com/rewards/earning/redeem would be used, but microsoft.com/systems/review would not?


### How can a customer contribute?
Chatbot users, either on the published chatbot, or within the **Test bot** panel, can provide feedback you provide on every generated response by using the "thumbs up" and "thumbs down" icons under the response. Users can also include more verbose feedback, when prompted after interacting with the icons. 

This feedback will be used to improve system quality.

## Fairness and broader impact

### Will GPT Answers work as well using languages other than  English?

GPT Answers only supports English. Inaccurate responses may be returned when users converse with the system in languages other than English.

## Privacy

### What data does GPT Answers collect? How is the data used?
GPT Answers collects user prompts, the responses returned by the system, and any feedback you provide. 

We use this data to evaluate and improve the quality of GPT Answers. More information on what data is collected is available in the [GPT Answers Preview Terms](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2224133).  


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](includes/footer-banner.md)]