---
title: Authoring FAQ
description: Desc for authoring FAQ
keywords: "PVA"
ms.date: 2/8/2023
ms.topic: how-to
author: iaanw
ms.author: iawilt
ms.reviewer: 
manager: shellyha
ms.collection: virtual-agent
ms.service: power-virtual-agents
searchScope:
  - "Power Virtual Agents"
---

# GPT Builder training, model, and usage FAQ

[!INCLUDE [Preview disclaimer](includes/cc-beta-prerelease-disclaimer.md)]


## General

### What is GPT Builder?

When GPT Builder is enabled, your chatbot will use AI, powered by the Azure OpenAI GPT-3 model (which is also used in Bing), to create bot topics based upon a simple description of what you want to achieve.

You can also modify and update any topic in your bot in the same manner, by describing the changes you want to make. 

### What data has GPT Builder been trained on?

GPT Builder is powered by the Azure OpenAI GPT-3 (text-davinci-003) model. GPT models are trained on a corpus consisting of a wide body of publicly available free text data. This data is sourced from a combination of web crawling, English-language Wikipedia, and more. [Learn more about Azure OpenAI](/legal/cognitive-services/openai/transparency-note). 




### Does GPT Builder produce perfect Topics?

Topics generated by GPT Builder are not always perfect, and may not accurately reflect the logic you wanted to implement. 

The system is designed to generate a single bot topic from a human-written description

- We have implemented mitigations to filter out irrelevant and offensive responses, and the feature is designed not to respond when offensive language is detected. These filters and mitigations are not foolproof.  
  You should always test and review your bots before publishing them.



[[
Responses generated by GPT Answers are not always perfect. 

The system is designed to query knowledge from the website of your choosing and to package relevant findings into an easily consumable response. However, it's important to keep in mind some characteristics of the AI that may lead to unexpected responses:

- The corpus upon which the model has been trained doesn't include data created after 2021.  
  We have implemented mitigations to prevent GPT from using its training corpus as a source for answers, however it is possible for answers to include content from websites other than the one you selected. 

- The system does not perform an accuracy check, so if the selected website contains inaccurate information this could be shown to your chatbot users. We have implemented mitigations to filter out irrelevant and offensive responses, and the feature is designed not to respond when offensive language is detected. These filters and mitigations are not foolproof.  
  You should always test and review your bots before publishing them. Publishing bots that have GPT Answers enabled requires admin approval. During the preview, your admin will need to contact Microsoft support to enable publication.
  ]]




### How was GPT Builder evaluated? What metrics are used to measure performance?   

GPT Builder was evaluated on a collection of manually curated Prompt/Topic datasets covering common, edge-case, and offensive content, as well as synthetic generation.  Topics generated from GPT Builder were manually reviewed and scored for relevance to the input prompt, usefulness, and offensiveness. 

### How does a bot maker get the most out of GPT Builder?

To get the most out of GPT Builder, include granular instructions in your description and limit the scope of the description to a single topic. If the generated Topic is not what you had in mind or if you’d like to further workshop it, use the [XXX] to modify the Topic, also using natural language. We also recommend you carefully review generated Topics for accuracy either in the visual designerauthoring canvas or code editor. 

### How can a customer contribute?

Feedback you provide on your satisfaction with generated Topics will be used to improve system quality. You can provide feedback by selecting thumbs up/ thumbs down for responses generated through GPT Builder. You also have the option to include more feedback in free text.

## Fairness and broader impact

### Will GPT Builder work as well using languages other than English?

The system supports English language only, though an inaccurate Topic configuration may be returned when users interact with PVA Authoring in languages other than English.

## Does GPT Builder produce offensive outputs?  

We have implemented mitigations to filter out offensive language from appearing in the configured Topic.  Furthermore, we monitor output and feedback to continually improve our content filters. Nevertheless, the content filter is not foolproof. To add to the robustness of content filtering, we are enabling Azure Open AI’s built-in content filtering support.

[NG alternative]: We have implemented several mitigations to filter out offensive language from appearing in the configured Topic. We also monitor output and the feedback you provide to continually improve our content filters. Nevertheless, Note this mitigationthese mitigations are not foolproof. Users should approach GPT Builder with the understanding that, while unlikely, offensive language may appear.

## Privacy

### What data does GPT Builder collect? How is the data used?
G
PT Builder collects user prompts, the returned configured Topics, and any feedback you may choose to provide. We use this data to evaluate and improve the quality of GPT Builder. More information on what data is collected is available in the GPT Builder Preview Terms.


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](includes/footer-banner.md)]


----, and that creation of multiple topics from a single natural language command is not supported.  

----Also, while we have implemented mitigations preventing PVA Authoring from returning topics with offensive content, this filter is not foolproof. Remember you are in full control and can choose to edit, delete, or add to Topics created through GPT Builder. Carefully test, review, and vet bots before publishing them in production. 