---
title: Benefits of Power Well Architected for data migration
description: Power Well Architected for data migration helps you achieve reliable, secure, and efficient migrations. Learn how to optimize your migration process.
#customer intent: As a Power Platform user, I want to understand the benefits of following Power Well Architected for data migration so that I can achieve reliable, secure, and efficient migrations.
author: manuelap-msft
ms.component: pa-admin
ms.topic: concept-article
ms.subservice: guidance
ms.author: mapichle
ms.reviewer: pankajsharma2087
ms.date: 05/20/2025
---


# Benefits of Power Well Architected for data migration


## Reliability

The defined data migration architecture ensures reliability by using several key strategies. Using a virtual machine in the same region as Dataverse minimizes latency and maximizes data transfer speeds. This setup makes migration efficient and less likely to be interrupted. Also, using a high-memory and high-storage virtual machine, like the D4 with 8 cores, 28 GB RAM, and 500 GB storage, means the architecture can handle large volumes of data without performance issues. Using a local database instead of an Azure database further improves reliability because it reduces dependencies on external services and avoids potential connectivity or service outages. Deploying Azure Data Factory in the same region as Dataverse ensures consistent and fast data processing. This architecture lets organizations achieve a robust and dependable data migration process with minimal downtime, fast error handling, and a simple recovery strategy.

- **Design for business requirements**

Design for business requirements by considering the need for data migration. After segmenting data, discuss migration needs with each business stakeholder to bring only relevant data. By adding columns like `Processing Flag`, `Action Flag`, and `DM Created Date Time`, you can monitor the progress of data migration at a granular level.

- **Resiliency**

Build a failover mechanism and handle errors immediately for every table to ensure resiliency during migration. Keeping error and success tables gives a clear picture of successful and failed records.

- **Recovery**

Plan the recovery process for any data migration. By storing data in intermediate staging databases, you can take full database backups at regular intervals to ensure recovery if the system fails or crashes. If you keep only tools at the application layer, it's hard to recover and find the current state of migration if the application fails. Running failed records is easier with a separate intermediate database.

- **Self-support**

A clear schema and systematic approach let team members support each other. If a key member is on vacation, others can understand the current situation by checking the status of individual tables and the current migration set. This architecture supports self-service.

- **Simplicity**

This architecture is simple and reliable. Any data migration developer can understand and implement it after learning the approach.

## Security

Security is critical in data migration architecture. Protect sensitive information throughout the migration process by using strong encryption for data in transit and at rest. Define access controls carefully and grant permissions only to authorized people to reduce internal risks. Run regular security audits and vulnerability assessments to find and fix risks. Use real-time monitoring and alerting to detect and respond to suspicious activity quickly. Follow industry standards and best practices to keep the migration environment secure and maintain data integrity, confidentiality, and availability during and after migration.

- **Security readiness**

For Dataverse data, security depends on ownership, business units, and security roles. Use disabled users as stubs and assign them a minimum privilege security role, like the "Salesperson" role. Keep data secure at the source by storing it in a VM or database with limited access.

- **Protecting confidentiality**

Follow strict ownership rules for data. Assign owners to the right business units and security roles to protect data confidentiality. Keep data records confidential from source to target. To prevent developers from seeing sensitive data, use masked data for migration jobs in lower environments. Run migration jobs in a separate environment with help from business users.

- **High availability**

Dataverse is a SaaS platform that guarantees high availability of data and the system. During migration, use an intermediate database with regular backups to ensure high availability and prevent data loss.

- **Sustaining the security**

After migration, keep security intact by making sure ownership migration isn't changed. Discard intermediate staging databases after you validate the migration.

## Operational Excellence

Operational excellence in our Data Migration Architecture is achieved
through a combination of meticulous planning, continuous improvement,
and adherence to best practices. The architecture is designed to ensure
that data is migrated efficiently and securely while maintaining high
levels of performance and reliability. Regular audits and assessments
help identify areas for improvement, allowing for the refinement of
processes and the implementation of innovative solutions. By using
advanced technologies and methodologies, we ensure that the migration
process is streamlined, reducing downtime and minimizing disruptions to
business operations. Additionally, the architecture includes robust
monitoring and alerting systems that provide real-time insights into the
migration process, enabling immediate response to any issues that may
arise. This proactive approach ensures that the migration is completed
on time and within budget, while also meeting the highest standards of
quality and security.

- **Embraces fusion development**

By integrating fusion development principles into our Data Migration
Architecture, we foster a collaborative environment where developers, IT
professionals, and business users work together seamlessly. This
approach enables the rapid development and deployment of migration
solutions that are tailored to meet the specific needs of the
organization. By using low-code platforms and tools, we empower
business users to contribute to the migration process, reducing the
dependency on IT resources and accelerating the overall timeline. This
collaborative model ensures that all stakeholders are aligned, and that
the migration strategy is executed effectively.

- **Establishes development standards**

Our Data Migration Architecture establishes strict development standards
to ensure consistency and quality across all migration projects. These
standards include guidelines for coding practices, documentation,
testing, and validation. By adhering to these standards, we ensure that
the migration process is predictable, repeatable, and scalable. This
structured approach reduces the risk of errors and enhances the overall
reliability of the migration. Additionally, standardized development
practices facilitate better communication and collaboration among team
members, leading to more efficient and effective project execution.

- **Improve operations with monitoring and insights**

The architecture incorporates advanced monitoring and analytics tools
that provide real-time insights into the migration process. These tools
track key performance indicators (KPIs) and generate detailed reports on
the progress and status of the migration. By continuously monitoring the
environment, we can quickly identify and address any potential issues
before they escalate. This proactive approach minimizes downtime and
ensures that the migration is completed smoothly. Furthermore, the
insights gained from monitoring help inform future migration projects,
enabling continuous improvement and optimization of our processes.

- **Deploy with confidence**

Our Data Migration Architecture is designed to instill confidence in the
deployment process. Rigorous testing and validation procedures are
implemented to ensure that all migrated data is accurate, complete, and
functional in the target environment. This includes unit testing,
integration testing, and user acceptance testing. By thoroughly
validating the data and systems before deployment, we mitigate the risk
of post-migration issues and ensure a seamless transition for end-users.
This comprehensive approach to validation and deployment provides peace
of mind to stakeholders and guarantees the success of the migration
project.

- **Automate for efficiency**

Automation is a key component of our Data Migration Architecture,
driving efficiency and reducing the risk of human error. Automated
scripts and workflows handle repetitive tasks such as data extraction,
transformation, and loading (ETL), as well as validation and testing.
This not only speeds up the migration process but also ensures
consistency and accuracy. By automating these tasks, we free up valuable
resources to focus on more strategic activities, such as process
optimization and stakeholder engagement. The use of automation tools
also allows for greater scalability, enabling us to handle larger and
more complex migration projects with ease.

- **Adopt safe deployment practices**

The architecture emphasizes the adoption of safe deployment practices to
protect the integrity and security of the data. This includes
implementing robust backup and recovery procedures, conducting thorough
pre-deployment testing, and ensuring that all changes are thoroughly
documented and reviewed. Additionally, we follow a phased deployment
approach, gradually rolling out changes to minimize risk and allow for
easy rollback if any issues are encountered. By prioritizing safety and
security in our deployment practices, we ensure that the migration
process is smooth, and that the data always remains protected.

## Performance Efficiency

Performance efficiency is a critical aspect of our Data Migration
Architecture. By employing advanced monitoring and analytics tools, the
architecture ensures that the migration process is consistently
optimized for speed and reliability. These tools track key performance
indicators (KPIs) such as data transfer rates, system resource
utilization, and error rates. The insights gained from this continuous
monitoring enables us to identify and resolve performance bottlenecks in
real time, ensuring that the entire migration process runs smoothly and
efficiently. Furthermore, the use of automated scripts and workflows
minimizes human intervention, thereby reducing the risk of errors and
enhancing overall performance. This meticulous attention to performance
metrics not only ensures a successful migration but also lays the
groundwork for future optimizations.

- **Realistic performance**

Realistic performance in data migration is achieved by setting
attainable performance goals based on thorough analysis and testing. Our
Data Migration Architecture considers the specific constraints and
capabilities of the source and target environments to define realistic
performance benchmarks. By doing so, we ensure that the migration
process is carried out within the acceptable limits of system resources,
avoiding overloading and potential failures. This pragmatic approach
allows for a balanced performance that aligns with the project's
objectives and timelines, ultimately contributing to a successful
migration.

- **Designed to meet performance requirements**

Our Data Migration Architecture is meticulously designed to meet
stringent performance requirements. This involves incorporating best
practices in coding, testing, and validation to ensure that every aspect
of the migration process is optimized for peak performance. Rigorous
performance testing is conducted to simulate various migration scenarios
and identify potential issues. The architecture also includes scalable
solutions such as load balancing and parallel processing to handle large
volumes of data efficiently. By adhering to these design principles, we
guarantee that the migration process meets the predefined performance
criteria, ensuring a seamless transition to the new system.

- **Achieving and sustaining performance**

Achieving and sustaining performance during data migration requires a
proactive approach to monitoring and optimization. Our architecture
employs continuous performance monitoring to track the progress and
status of the migration in real time. This allows us to quickly identify
and address any performance issues that may arise, ensuring that the
migration process remains on track. Additionally, we implement regular
performance reviews and adjustments to maintain optimal performance
throughout the migration. By adopting a dynamic and responsive approach,
we ensure that the migration process not only achieves but also sustains
high levels of performance.

- **Improving efficiency through optimization**

Efficiency in data migration is enhanced through
continuous optimization efforts. Our architecture applies automation
tools to streamline repetitive tasks such as data extraction,
transformation, and loading (ETL). These automated workflows reduce the
time and effort required for manual interventions, allowing us to focus
on more strategic activities. Additionally, we employ advanced analytics
to identify inefficiencies and areas for improvement within the
migration process. By implementing these optimizations, we achieve
higher efficiency, reduce downtime, and ensure a smooth and successful
migration.

## Experience Optimization

Experience optimization in our Data Migration Architecture focuses on
enhancing the overall experience of both developers and end-users. By
integrating user-centric design principles and using advanced
technologies, we create an environment that is intuitive, efficient, and
highly productive. This approach ensures that the migration process isn't only effective but also user-friendly, minimizing disruptions and
maximizing satisfaction.

- **Design for the developer/user**

In this Architecture of Data Migration presented here, it gives a
systematic approach for complex Dataverse Data Migration. How a
developer can start extracting data from source and then create staging
tables and after necessary transformations moving to the Dataverse
environment. This whole process creates a clarity in developer’s mind
for using this Data Migration Architecture. It also suggests several
tools for efficient data migration. Designing for the developer and
end-user experience is paramount in crafting a seamless data migration
process. Our Data Migration Architecture encompasses several key
elements to achieve this:

- **Intuitive SQL:** We prioritize the creation of user-friendly SQL
  tables that simplify complex migration tasks. This includes
  step-by-step process that guide users through each phase of the
  migration, reducing the likelihood of errors and enhancing overall
  efficiency.

- **Comprehensive documentation:** Detailed and clear documentation is
  provided to support both developers and end-users. Well-structured
  documentation ensures users can easily find the information they need,
  fostering independence and confidence.

- **Scalable solutions:** Our architecture is designed to scale with the
  needs of the project. Whether handling small datasets or migrating
  vast volumes of data, our solutions adapt to ensure consistent
  performance and reliability. Features like load balancing and parallel
  processing are incorporated to manage high workloads effectively.

<!-- -->

- **Design for simplicity**

Designing for simplicity is a core principle of our Data Migration
Architecture. Simplified workflows and automated processes reduce
complexity, making the migration process more straightforward and less
error prone. This involves implementing user-friendly SQL procedures and
clear, concise documentation that guides users through each step of the
migration. Additionally, the architecture uses modular design
principles, allowing components to be easily understood, maintained, and
upgraded. By prioritizing simplicity, we ensure that the migration
process is efficient, reducing the learning curve and enabling quicker
adoption by both developers and end-users.

## Cut over planning for go live

Most of the organizations face difficulty to assess on the correct cut
over planning for going live after complex data migration. We need to
plan the cut over planning carefully to avoid any real business
impacts. Here are some important considerations for cut over planning.

- **Assess the duration for migration –** Most of the times developers
  keep building Data Migration jobs for dev / UAT environment and don't
  have any idea on the real volume / size of actual data. We should
  always assess the speed of CRUD operations in terms of records/second,
  and estimate number of such operations which are likely to happen in
  production and on top of that we can add 20-30% buffer time for
  monitoring those jobs, this gives us a good idea on how much
  approximate time it’s going to take for full data migration.

- **Plan for full vs. delta load –** If full data migration is taking
  more time, we need to plan it carefully. Even if we can achieve a
  good speed of data migration which might be 100-200 records per
  second, and there are about 1.2 million seconds in two weeks, in that
  scenario also, a 24x7 successfully running job will migration about
  120 million records in about two weeks. Which is also impacting the
  business for two weeks. In most cases this isn't allowed. With speed of
  50 records per second similar volume of data would take approximately
  four weeks, which is a long time.

We can resolve this problem by making a strategy so that we do full load
data migration approximately a month ago then the actual Go Live, and
then every week by week we can start migrating the delta data for that
week, this way we know the approximate time for loading a week’s
delta data and can plan Go Live accurately. Also, business users also
get a time to test on migrated data and can compare Apple to Apple,
meaning source system data records to target system data records.

Any Data Migration which is taking more than 2-3 days to complete, we
must plan for full and delta data loads. This helps planning for
business continuity.

- **Plan for clear communication and downtime –** Final delta data
  migration must be done after freezing the source and target systems
  for any real time transactions, so that we get a clear snapshot of
  Data, and can switch from source systems to target system. We need to
  plan for this communication and send it to the team well in advance.
  To minimize this downtime, we should plan this downtime in
  non-business hours or weekends.

