---
title: Transparency note for creating and editing bots with copilot
description: This transparency note provides information about the AI technology used in Power Virtual Agents, along with key considerations and details about how the AI is used, how it was tested and evaluated, and any specific limitations.
ms.date: [Date]
ms.custom: 
  - transparency-note
ms.topic: article
author: [Author]
ms.author: [Author]
ms.reviewer: [Reviewer]
---



### Does the capability produce perfect topics?   

Topics generated by the **Copilot** capability are not always perfect, and may not accurately reflect the logic you wanted to implement. 

The system is designed to generate a single bot topic from a human-written description. We have implemented mitigations to filter out irrelevant and offensive language from appearing in the configured topic, and the system is designed not to respond when offensive language is detected. 

We also monitor output and the feedback that bot users provide to continually improve our content filters.

These filters and mitigations are not foolproof.

You should always test and review your bots before publishing them.

### How was the capability evaluated? What metrics are used to measure performance?

The capability was evaluated on a collection of manually curated prompt-and-topic datasets, covering common, edge-case, and offensive content, as well as synthetic generation.

During evaluation, topics generated from the capability were manually reviewed and scored for relevance to the input prompt, usefulness, and offensiveness. 

## Fairness and broader impact

### Will the capability work as well using languages other than English?

The system only supports English. Inaccurate responses may be returned when users converse with the system in languages other than English.

## Privacy

### What data does the capability collect? How is the data used?

The capability collects user prompts, the returned configured Topics, and any feedback you provide.

We use this data to evaluate and improve the quality of the capability. More information on what data is collected is available in the [terms](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2236010).

## Disable Copilot in Power Virtual Agents

Admins can disable Copilot for their organization by starting a support request with Microsoft.

## Reporting Concerns

### How can I report concerns about Copilot?

If you have any concerns (such as those relating to content policies or codes of conduct) about the Copilot feature, you can raise them by emailing us at pvareport@microsoft.com. We will aim to respond to you within 2 business days.
