---
title: Microsoft Power Platform CLI modelbuilder command group| Microsoft Docs
description: "Describes commands and parameters for the Microsoft Power Platform CLI modelbuilder command group."
keywords: "pac cli"
ms.subservice: developer
author: laneswenka
ms.author: laswenka
ms.reviewer: jdaly
ms.topic: generated-reference
contributors: 
 - JimDaly
---
<!-- 
Do not edit this file. 
This file is generated by a program and any changes will be overwritten when this topic is re-generated.
Use the include files to add additional content to this topic.
-->
# pac modelbuilder

Code Generator for Dataverse APIs and Tables

[!INCLUDE [modelbuilder-intro](includes/modelbuilder-intro.md)]

## Commands

|Command|Description|
|---------|---------|
|[pac modelbuilder build](#pac-modelbuilder-build)|Builds a code model for Dataverse APIs and Tables|


## pac modelbuilder build

Builds a code model for Dataverse APIs and Tables

[!INCLUDE [modelbuilder-build-intro](includes/modelbuilder-build-intro.md)]


### Required Parameters for modelbuilder build

#### `--outdirectory` `-o`

Write directory for entity, message, and optionset files.


### Optional Parameters for modelbuilder build

#### `--emitentityetc` `-etc`

When set, includes the entity ETC ( entity type code ) in the generated code.

This parameter requires no value. It's a switch.

#### `--emitfieldsclasses` `-efc`

Generate a constants structure that contains all of the field names by entity at the time of code generation.

This parameter requires no value. It's a switch.

#### `--emitvirtualattributes` `-eva`

When set, includes supporting name attributes for lookups that enable filtering on the primary name attribute values of lookup attributes.

This parameter requires no value. It's a switch.

#### `--entitynamesfilter` `-enf`

Filters the list of entities are retrieved when reading data from Dataverse. Passed in as a semicolon separated list. Using the form \<entitylogicalname>;\<entitylogicalname>

#### `--entitytypesfolder` `-etf`

Folder name that contains entities. The default name is 'Entities'.

#### `--environment` `-env`

Specifies the target Dataverse. The value may be a Guid or absolute https URL. When not specified, the active organization selected for the current auth profile will be used.

#### `--generateGlobalOptionSets` `-go`

Emit all Global OptionSets. Note: If an entity contains a reference to a global optionset, it is emitted even if this switch is not present.

#### `--generatesdkmessages` `-a`

When set, emits Sdk message classes as part of code generation.

This parameter requires no value. It's a switch.

#### `--language` `-l`

The language to use for the generated proxy code. This value can be either 'CS' or 'VB'. The default language is 'CS'.

#### `--logLevel` `-ll`

Log level. The default value is 'Off'.

Use one of these values:

- `Off`
- `Critical`
- `Error`
- `Warning`
- `Information`
- `Verbose`
- `ActivityTracing`
- `All`

#### `--messagenamesfilter` `-mnf`

Filters the list of messages that are retrieved when reading data from Dataverse. Passed in as a semicolon separated list, required messages (Create, Update, Delete, Retrieve, RetrieveMultiple, Associate and Disassociate) are always included. Use a trailing or leading asterisk (*) with the names of the messages to allow for all messages starting with or ending with a string. Using the form \<messagename>;\<messagename>.

#### `--messagestypesfolder` `-mtf`

Folder name that contains messages. The default name is 'Messages'.

#### `--namespace` `-n`

The namespace for the generated code. The default namespace is the global namespace.

#### `--optionsetstypesfolder` `-otf`

Folder name that contains option sets. The default name is 'OptionSets'.

#### `--serviceContextName` `-sctx`

The name for the generated service context. If a value is passed in, it's used for the Service Context. If not, no Service Context is generated.

#### `--settingsTemplateFile` `-stf`

Contains Settings to be used for this run of the Dataverse Model Builder, overrides any duplicate parameters on command line. Can't be set when --writesettingstemplate is used.

#### `--suppressGeneratedCodeAttribute` `-sgca`

When set, this suppress all generated objects being tagged with the code generation engine and version

This parameter requires no value. It's a switch.

#### `--suppressINotifyPattern`

When enabled, doesn't write the INotify wrappers for properties and classes.

#### `--writesettingsTemplateFile` `-wstf`

When set, writes a settings file out to the output directory with the current passed settings or default settings.

[!INCLUDE [modelbuilder-build-remarks](includes/modelbuilder-build-remarks.md)]

[!INCLUDE [modelbuilder-remarks](includes/modelbuilder-remarks.md)]

### See also

[Microsoft Power Platform CLI Command Groups](index.md)<br />
[Microsoft Power Platform CLI overview](../introduction.md)