---
title: View your workspace in Project “Sophia”
description: Learn how to navigate a workspace in Project “Sophia”.
author: mikkelsen2000
ms.topic: Overview
ms.custom: 
ms.reviewer: mkaur
ms.date: 10/31/2023
ms.subservice: power-platform
ms.author: pemikkel
search.audienceType:
  - maker
contributors:
  - mduelae
  - mikkelsen2000
---

# What is a workspace? (preview)

[This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]

When a new journey or guide you create, a workspace is automatically created and saved. By default, a new workspace is saved as **Untitled**. We recommend that you name your workspace so it’s easier to find in the list of workspaces. You can access your workspaces from the Home screen.
To rename a workspace select the default name and rename it. 

A blueprint is what you see after creating a new workspace, ask a question or upload data and then select **Generate**. You can also generate a new blueprint by selecting a suggested next step.  
When you use the AI cursor to ask a question about the content on a blueprint, you can choose to either generate as a new blueprint by selecting generate as new blueprint or as a new block by selecting replace existing block on the existing template.   

The following outlines the types of blocks that are generated in a blueprint:

- **Text Overview**: Provides a summary and key insights at a glance.
- **Chart**: Facilitates visual understanding of complex data or research findings. Chart blocks can render various chart types. It's primarily focuses on presenting top 10 items for quick overviews, but you can modify this range, filter data, or modify chart type using the AI Cursor. 
- **News**: Delivers at least three current news articles or resources from global sources.  The relevance and quantity of the news articles are influenced by your specific selection within a block using the AI Cursor, or from a generic question, with or without file association. In cases of file association, world data is augmented to the local asset to ensure contextual relevance. Each article provides a link to the full resource, enabling users to explore the topic further. The news block, along with the context-awareness of the AI Cursor, provides a comprehensive response to questions asked.
- **Suggested next steps**: Designed to inspire deeper explorations or actions based on the information currently available on the canvas. Every time you interact with the system either by asking questions or uploading files, the suggested next step block suggests up to five next actions that you can try to expand your analysis.
You are not limited to the suggested next steps generated by Project Sophia. You can always use the AI Cursor to write your own next step. 


