---
title: Work with generated content in Project “Sophia” 
description: Learn how to work with generated content in Project “Sophia”.
author: mikkelsen2000
ms.topic: Overview
ms.custom: 
ms.reviewer: mkaur
ms.date: 10/31/2023
ms.subservice: power-platform
ms.author: pemikkel
search.audienceType:
  - maker
contributors:
  - mduelae
  - mikkelsen2000
---

# Work with generated content (preview)

[This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]

When a new journey or guide you create, a workspace is automatically created and saved. By default, a new workspace is saved as **Untitled**. We recommend that you name your workspace so it’s easier to find in the list of workspaces. You can access your workspaces from the Home screen.

A blueprint is what you see after creating a new workspace, ask a question or upload data and then select **Generate**. You can also generate a new blueprint by selecting a suggested next step.  
When you use the AI cursor to ask a question about the content on a blueprint, you can choose to either generate as a new blueprint by selecting generate as new blueprint or as a new block by selecting replace existing block on the existing template.   

The following outlines the types of blocks that's generated in a blueprint and the action you can take:

1. **Text Overview** block: Provides a summary and key insights at a glance.
2. **Chart** block: Facilitates visual understanding of complex data or research findings. Chart blocks can render various chart types. It's primarily focuses on presenting top 10 items for quick overviews, but you can modify this range, filter data, or modify chart type using the AI Cursor. 
3. **News** block: Delivers at least three current news articles or resources from global sources.  The relevance and quantity of the news articles are influenced by your specific selection within a block using the AI Cursor, or from a generic question, with or without file association. In cases of file association, world data is augmented to the local asset to ensure contextual relevance. Each article provides a link to the full resource, enabling users to explore the topic further. The news block, along with the context-awareness of the AI Cursor, provides a comprehensive response to questions asked.
4. **Suggested next steps** block: Designed to inspire deeper explorations or actions based on the information currently available on the canvas. Every time you interact with the system either by asking questions or uploading files, the suggested next step block suggests up to five next actions that you can try to expand your analysis.
You are not limited to the suggested next steps generated by Project Sophia. You can always use the AI Cursor to write your own next step. 
5. **Workspace name**: To rename a workspace select the default name **Untilted** and rename it. 
6. **Keep it**: Saves the generated content. Select the **Untitled** text box and enter a name for the generated workspace. If you don’t save the generated information, the system will automatically save it as **Untitled**. You can access all generated content from the Home screen.
7. **Regenerate**: Regenerates the results or select **Regenerate with new data** to replace with another data set instead of starting over. The **Regenerate** option can generate different results, but the level of difference depends on the specificity of the question asked. For instance, a general question such as “tell me something interesting about my data”, will likely generate different results if you regenerate, whereas as question such as “show me my top ten accounts based on last years’ sales numbers” will generate similar results, if you regenerate. 
8. **Discard**: Deletes the generated data.
9. **Show work and discard**: When content is generated, each block of content has a more menu (…) located at the upper-right corner. The menu has options to view more information about the generated content or discard it. 
**Show work**rovides clarity on how the content was generated and which skills were used to produce the content. **Discard** Removes the block of research. 
10. **Zoom and pan**: Use the pan and zoom to quickly navigate your content. The pan button provides an overview of your entire workspace, allowing you to navigate and zoom in and out on your blueprints.
